the world or God demands that you
constantly humble yourself in front of
what's happening to you you know right
now they get this fires and the smoke
well guess what everybody in Washington
DC New York City has to deal with that
reality has imposed itself you have to
you have to humble yourself before
what's happening around you and make
adjustments accordingly you don't get to
just assert well I think the world
should be this way I think God should
honor my sacrific I think I should have
the tower however it is no if your
sacrifices aren't being honored the
first question ask is what have you done
[Music]
wrong hello everyone watching and
listening today I'm speaking with author
mathematician and political commentator
Dr James Lindsay we discuss Marxism how
it evolved from a singular ideology into
a Genus spawning many oppressor
oppressed dogmas across modern culture
ideas such as Equity critical race
Theory queer Theory we Trace these subm
Marxist doctrines back past fundamental
narrative into the theological realm and
detail their utility in uh what would
you say justifying the acquisition of
power we also discussed the grievance
studies Affair of which Dr Lindsay was a
co-author so James I kind of feel like I
know you I follow you on Twitter and
watch all the trouble you cause or some
of it anyways and we did do a podcast a
number of years ago with Helen and Peter
and uh but I actually don't know you and
so let's start with that I'd like to
know a little bit more about you and
let's let everybody who's watching and
listening know too so um let's say what
what are what are you when you're not
causing trouble on Twitter what are you
involved in at the moment I think
causing what does your what does your
actual life look like causing trouble on
the road is what I'm
yeah well I mean Twitter overlaps with
the road because it lives in my pocket
so you know that's convenient but I do a
lot of speaking I speak a lot I've had
the privilege this year of getting to
speak all over the world I get to speak
at the EU Parliament that was great um
right right right and because it's
really funny everybody's telling me that
I and I think it's true this is the best
public speech you've ever given PA and
so what a you know what a setting did
hit the one that you hit congratulations
on that front well it turns out that the
night before it's a silly story the
night before I had a smaller meeting in
AA restur with a number of the MEPS from
different countries and I'm trying to
talk and I tend to be humorous and speak
quickly and this is just my style and
that all my jokes were Landing flat and
I got kind of awkward and I realized
it's they don't speak English English is
not even you know they're not even all
yeah that's particularly rough on the
joke front so then I had to start
slowing down and I Gott really conscious
of slowing down and enunciating and and
trying to use simpler terminology to to
talk about you know neomarxism and
postmodernism it's very difficult so I
gave this speech and it just happened to
work out but I've had this privilege so
you know 175 flights I took last year uh
to give you a feel for how much on the
road there is uh getting around meeting
mostly with Grassroots organizations
some bigger political stuff or
legislators but mostly moms and dads
that are trying to do something in this
country and and around other what Canada
as well to try to change are you mostly
in North America when you're traveling
overwhelmingly just in the US uh
overwhelmingly uhhuh how did the EU
invitation come about they reached out
to me so I'm not exactly sure how they
they got connected with me but one of
the MEPS they put together a conference
uh at the EU Parliament to talk was that
in Brussels it was in Brussels it was in
Brussels were you in their terrible
building in Brussels I was and with hug
airport yeah huge airport with you've
been right so you know ultimate Tower of
baby so there's that Park back behind it
that has the es you know about these
statues so there's a small Park it's you
know not very big however however many
square meters very small grassy area and
there's all these strange statues and
you come on it and you say three-legged
statues it looks like aliens and you get
closer and you realize they're all
ostriches with their heads stuck in the
ground and I thought what how poetic is
this building oh yeah you know uh and
but yeah it was in Brussels and so how
were you received there well it was a
conservative group it was a center right
European party called identity democracy
foundation so they were very warm to me
I actually had a handful of uh there was
a student group from the foundation that
was also present at the EU at the same
time and so many of them came maybe over
a hundred of them came and so I I got a
lot of feedback actually they sent me
messages as one does on Instagram or
whatever and said you know this was
amazing this was great yeah the EU
speech kind of went viral didn't it it
did yeah it really took off it actually
it kind of lurked for a month and then
it exploded about a month later and it's
still just going crazy right now and so
you said you slowed down and you
enunciated more carefully and but what
do you think you what do you think you
hit on that that made it so attractive
as a speech well I was the question of
the the whole conference which is a
three you know three meeting session
that I was at the first one it was what
is woke and what does it mean for Europe
and so I tried to give a in a sense a
genealogy of woke and actually a
taxonomy is more accurate I started off
by saying well I think that woke is in
fact Marxism that's evolved to attack
the west and the techniques it's using
are reminiscent of Ma's Cultural
Revolution and so you can say that it's
Marxist or maist but then I said we
can't understand that unless we
understand Marxism in a bigger way if we
focus on his economic analysis in
capital we miss the entire picture if we
take a step back and say that he
outlined an entire theory of man and the
world and our behavior in it and the
meaning of life and purpose Taos for for
our being which is to transform the
world into the Socialist Utopia to
advance history to its intended end then
you can see that the particular mode of
analysis becomes fungible if it's
economic analysis for Marx then you get
classical Marxism if it's race analysis
for the critical race theorists it's
almost you have to massage around the
edges but it's almost the exact same
Arch well that's certainly what it
seemed to me to be you know one of the
things that's been disturbing I suppose
on the gap lighting front is whenever I
draw a relationship between
postmodernism and neomarxism first of
all people say two things that I don't
know what I'm talking about which by the
way is rarely the case and second that
you know that's that's a conspiratorial
misreading of the relationship that
there's nothing that most postmodernism
has nothing to do with Marxism and you
know I've taken that criticism seriously
because it happens a lot I think well
you know is there some manner in which I
have this wrong and then I go back as
much as I can to the source documents
including Fuko and I think and Dara and
I think well they said they were
marxists that seems like you know proof
and uh the entire intellectual millu at
that time in France was Marxist
including people who should have known
better like Jean Paul sarta so it's like
that was the that was the water in which
which those particular fish swam and the
post
modernists when they themselves say that
they're what would you say that their
intellectual effort is tending in the
Marxist direction or is an extension of
Marxism I'm pretty much inclined to
believe them and so I don't understand
how this notion that those two two
concepts are separate has come about you
do you have any any idea about that I do
I've thought tremendously on this
question and I believe I have an answer
and kind of like yourself if I open my
mouth usually I've thought about
something before I I spout off and in
this case it's the nature of the way
these theories evolve they evolve
through what technically is called
dialectical critique and so each
descendant Theory say if we use Marxism
as as as the common ancestor if you will
and that's what I did by the way in the
EU as I said it's think of Marxism as a
genus and you have all these species
well postmodernism is a species but they
evolve through dialectical critique so
for each new derivative that comes out
say
postmodernism they have to create
themselves by giving a critique of the
thing that they were before so they
start by saying here's where Marxism is
wrong and academics hyperfocus on these
distinctions and they say look I see
they said think they say just like you
say well they say that they're Marxist
that looks like proof they say well they
said we're criticizing Marx so that's
proof that they're different and the
neo-marxists are no exception and you'll
find literal so you think it's
narcissism of small differences use the
Freudian term yeah so there's a level of
analysis at which these I think your
genus and species uh metaphor is a good
one so there's a there's a level of
analysis at which these are all
variations on a theme and there's
another level of analysis where that
well no they're distinctly different
which is exactly what does happen in
academic micro arguments right so you
think part of that's well I think part
of it's just the attempt to sew
confusion as well oh probably so or and
then also ignorance on the part of the
critics because they just don't know
enough about what they're talking about
to even know that there's a relationship
between postmodernism and neomarxism and
and Marxism I guess the other issue too
is that in principle the postmodernists
were skeptical of meta narratives and it
does seem not unreasonable to point out
that Marxism is a grand meta narrative
and so if you're skeptical about meta
narratives you know you might start out
by being skeptical about Marxism and if
you just focused on the post-modern
critique of meta narrative then you'd
say Well it couldn't be allied with
Marxism because Marxism is a meta
narrative but my response to that would
be what makes you think that incoherence
ever bothered a postmodernist right
right in fact they specialize in
incoherence and and and I think because
it can SE Discord and Chaos most
effectively this is why this this
metaphor the genus species is so
important and for me this you know well
Marxism is a grand meta narrative Etc
this is almost like saying imagine that
the the animal CA that we're talking
about is something to do with cats right
and so now we have cats tigers well
tigers have a tail right and and then
lions and lions have a tail and house
cats house cats have a tail so cats have
Tales right well not Bobcats not lynxes
and so if we think of the tale as being
a grand meta narrative in fact the broad
historicism of of classical Marxism you
find both neomarxism or critical Marxism
and postmodernism are becoming skeptical
of this kind of grand uh trajectory of
History narrative that that was kind of
the early modern thought we shift from
Modern thinking to postmodern thinking
away from the scientific and into the
kind of blatantly mystical and and
romantic which the postmodernists are
wholly characterized by you can just
imagine it it's a cat without a tail
yeah I see if we do this you know I said
Marxism is economic and critical race
theory is race and we can say that clear
theory is the concept of who defines
what's normal postmodernism is really a
Marxist analysis of who gets to say what
things mean yeah who gets to Define it
seems to me the fundament Al core around
which these Concepts circulate is well
one core is resentment and bitterness
there's an Envy there's no doubt about
that on the motivational front yes but
the other core more ideological and
intellectual would be the notion that
every social interaction is best viewed
through the lens of oppressor and
oppressed and so then you can do that
with economics which is essentially what
Marx did but once you've established
that pattern well it's all about
victimization and power so that I think
I think it's actually the same claim
that that it's it's like a Neo Christian
claim that emerged out of the Middle
Ages because there was a Doctrine in the
Middle Ages among some strands of
Christian thinkers that the that the
secular world the Earthly world let's
say was the domain of Satan himself
right it was ruled by the prince of
power and I think that's exactly what
the marxists claim except they you know
are they in favor of that or against it
it's very difficult to say but their
fundamental claim is something like
all human relationships can be
understand understood through the lens
of power and oppression I mean that's
Fuko in a nutshell right because his
whole theory is that everything is
carceral power every time I say that
word I have to stop and tell it means
prison yeah incarcerated is the is the
derivative for for people but um it's
all about carceral power so these these
sects that you're referring to in the
Middle Ages of of kind of bizarre
Christianity were actually Gnostic
heresies that were developing and I
think that actually by means of of Hegel
coming down through Marx who inverted it
I believe we actually actually are
looking at a gnostic heresy got hidden
inside of Economics social in fact if we
read phenomenology of spirit from Hegel
1807 a publication you get distinctly
the sense that what he means by spirit
is what he says he means by spirit it's
a spirit of society it's a social
phenomenon it's kind of the the seed of
uh sociology in a sense and this social
spiritual realm is for for Hegel quite
literally because he was a heretical
theologian is the the working of the
holy spirit in the world it's not this
you know Transcendent uh third person of
the godhead it is
this it is the functioning of human
beings in the
collective all and how that's moving
through history and so if we relocate as
a modern transformation of kind of this
heretical Christian middle age
middleages you know almost New Age
movement of the time mystical movement
of the time we have a very clear shift
from the transcendental to the social to
the social Universe representing the
spirit and so then Marx he actually
figures out the code he says no hegel's
got it upside down we focus on the idea
and the state will follow and the spirit
will follow the state and he said no no
no and then the the spirit will will
sublate and raised to ALF haben in
German and raised to a higher level and
we'll have a new idea blah blah blah
that's his his Trinity cycle his
dialectical cycle for Hegel well Marx
say know it's upside down we start on
the ground we do the work we do the
practice do the work is the modern
phrasing we do the prac we do the
activism and we change society directly
and then that will cause as Society
changes the what he called the inversion
of practice the the social conditioning
to rain down on people and actually
reify the transformation of society so
this I think is where Marx had inverted
Hegel and this is where we have a shift
from the premodern transcendental
spiritual to the modern social spiritual
and this just becomes the playground of
Romantics and eventually The
postmodernists Who throw up their hands
and say this whole thing is just this
you know gigantic Dynamic of power to or
if you and I Converse I mean at one
point I remember maybe 10 years ago some
feminists didn't go very far but they
posited this very postmodern argument
that there was no possibility ever for a
woman to consent to sex with a man
because there's always a patriarchal
power Dynamic so there's always no
matter what no matter how much you know
she says she's interested or whatever
there is
always always her being
coerced so this is I think you know kind
of this huge shift and you say you know
academics get in these micro
distinctions and that is partly their
job so okay fine but it's also how they
carve out territory though that is that
there is an incentive structure there
yes but this is uh it's so important to
to realize that if we don't take a step
back and understand this bigger picture
that this is a fundamentally theological
architecture I like knowing exactly
where my meat comes from and with moink
I know it's coming from small Family
Farms all across the country moink
delivers grass-fed and grass finished
beef and lamb pastured pork and chicken
and sustainable wild cot Alaskan salmon
straight to your door moink lets you
choose the meat delivered in every box
select an existing box or create your
own set your delivery Cadence and enjoy
delicious meat you can cancel anytime
but you won't want to if you're not sure
where to start check out their standard
box it comes with a little bit of
everything chicken ribey burgers and
steak moink is all about supporting the
Family Farm think about it this way 2%
of American are farmers but 100% of
Americans eat we need to show our
support for the families that keep us
well fed after receiving my first moink
box I was floored the salmon and chicken
are both fantastic and the steak might
be the best I've ever had and keep in
mind I cooked it myself with a freezer
full of moink products I can without a
doubt say it is a fantastic deal on a
ton of delicious and well produced
products you won't be disappointed and
you can rest assured all of Mo's meat
comes from wholesome American farmers so
keep American farming Going Strong by
signing up at moink box.com
jbp right now and Dr Peterson's
listeners can get free bacon in your
first box and let me say it's the best
bacon you'll ever taste I re-up my
subscription because I ran out too fast
m o
inkbox.com
sjbp That's moink box.com
jbp well we could even go back farther
than that I think so you tell me what
you think about this this set of ideas
that I've been working on more recently
so um I I mentioned earlier that you
could think about Marxism in two ways
and the new Marxist variants that we've
been talking about you can take you can
think about them as
um expositors of the doctrine of power
that every social relationship between
human beings can be understood as a
function of domination and compulsion so
that would be marriage that would be
friendship family economic relationships
history itself every single social
relationship now that has the advantage
of extreme Simplicity and so even if
you're not very bright you can
understand it it's comprehensively
explanatory so that's attractive on a
psychological front and then there's a
nefarious element and the nefarious
element me is that well if it's all
about
power then not only am I thoroughly
justified in my use of power because
after all that's just what you're doing
but it also uh justifies any accusation
possible because you might come up with
a claim for example that you're a
proponent of free speech and I can
easily say well no like as a white
colonialist benefiting from the
privilege of your position you just use
the argument that such a thing as free
speech exists to justify your position
in the power hierarchy and that's a
universal criticism and so then I can
take anything that you might claim as
positive and just transform it with
intellectual jiujitsu into a
manifestation of the power drive you
know and and it's fair to say that the
drive to power is a human motivation but
it's not the only not the only one right
and it's also fair to say that when
social relations are corrupted they
become corrupted in the dis in the
direction of power but it's that's a
completely 100% different proposition
than the claim that all human social
relationships are predicated on power I
mean you mean all do you yeah okay so I
know where okay so so so there's the
power claim but then there's this
undercurrent of bitterness and
resentment and I see
this system of ideas that's playing out
as an extension actually of the battle
between Cain and Abel yes because okay
so why
yes this bitterness this Envy there's
the the the you know the the very devout
and and or devout maybe is not the right
word but the very obedient abble and
then he he has these advantages Kane
gets very upset yes well that's and
comes to murder him this is like exactly
the motivation and this is how do they
proceed you know so if if we take
seriously the concept that this is a
gnostic heresy and you look back whether
it's Jews pre how did you come to that
conclusion that it was a gnostic heresy
because I I didn't know you had pursued
this all the way back into the religious
realm well I stumbled on a
recommendation uh onto a philosopher
named Eric fogland who's got quite the
reputation for for having named Marx as
a gnostic and then I went down a rabbit
hole reading about gnosticism and
reading about um Hegel and his
relationship to this kind of mystical
reinterpretation of Christianity you
know Glenn Alexander McGee Eric fogan
these these analysis I read a little bit
of Evola not a big fan of Julius iola's
writing but I read a little he makes
these claims quite strongly as well and
uh then I just started to read the
Gnostic texts myself and and the
Hermetic texts and so I stumble I I mean
I've been claiming for a decade that
this is a religious phenomenon posing is
sociology and some phenomen some some
fashion but this is what really finally
allowed me to put it together and and it
doesn't matter nosism is by its nature
parasitical it's that we have discovered
through whatever means divine you know
Revelation whatever happens to be the
secret salvific knowledge that they
don't want you to know so there's some
higher truth that's hidden and maybe
there's a Code written in the Bible that
if you have the secret means of divining
it then you can determine what the bible
really means and when you go and you
talk to the priest and the priest says
no that's a heresy they turn around and
say he just doesn't want you to know
that which when you say it goes back to
Cain and Abel it goes back further than
that it goes back to the serpent and Eve
God hath not said you know you've got
this emblem of of all authority that has
declared this thing then you have the
subversive element that comes in and say
was that what he really said so so it
seems to me that that this is a way of
conceptualizing the relationship between
the religious and the philosophical and
the
sociological so if you if you delve
deeply enough into the battle between
two idea sets and you keep going down as
you go down to more and more fundamental
layers you approach the religious
because the religious is by definition
the most F and and I'm offering a
definition here that religious is by
definition the most fundamental and so I
think when you're looking at something
like the culture War that's going on you
can you can see it as a battle between
ideas but then when you trace the ideas
back you see it as a battle between
narratives and when you trace the
narratives back you see as a battle
between fundamental narratives and as
you approach the most fundamental
narrative you're treading on religious
grounds yes so what happens in the story
of Cain and Abel of course is that Cain
makes second rate sacrifices right and
he knows they're second rate and because
they're second rate and he's not all in
his sacrifices aren't accepted and
that's just a phenomenal logical truth
which is life is so difficult that
unless you make the proper sacrifices
you're not going to succeed and then he
calls God out on that says the cosmos is
constituted in an illg gotten manner
because I'm not successful and God
basically says well if you did things
right things would work out for you and
instead of Cain accept that is
corrective information his countenance
Falls so goes the story and he flies
into a murderous rage and destroys his
own ideal because he really wants to be
able right and then the descendants of
Cain become he's murderous Cain
obviously because he kills Abel and then
the descendants of Cain become
genocidal right so so and so the way the
biblical narrative essentially opens
because Cain and Abel are the first two
real human beings right because Adam and
Eve are made by God so
the the biblical narrative portrays the
battle between the spirit of Cain and
Abel as the fundamental battle that
rages in the human heart so it's the
battle between the spirit of proper
sacrifice which is what Abel represents
the spirit of improper sacrifice that's
Cain and the cascading consequences of
improper sacrifice and then a
metaphysical battle between those two
spirits that characterizes well that's
when history starts right so that's the
central battle in history and I think of
Marx as as I think the French Revolution
was a manifestation of the spirit of
Cain and that the that Marxism itself is
a manifestation of the spirit of Cain
and then the postmodern Enterprise
that's besetting us now another
manifestation of the spirit of Cain and
it's the proclamation I don't exactly
understand the relationship between that
and the claim that it's power that's the
ruler of all things but I do know that
the spirit of Cain is indistinguishable
say in the biblical Corpus from the
spirit of Satan and Satan is the the
satanic ruler is definitely the ruler
that uses power and compulsion and
deception to control everything I mean I
think your connection that you're
looking for um boils down I mean Fuko
gives us the hint right everything is a
prison this carceral power so what is
power in this analysis is the power to
compel to to extort to force behaviors
to paraphrase Larry f
and so right no kidding paraphrase Larry
think and bloody Black Rock if we again
if we take this Gnostic concept
seriously the gnostics believe that
there is an all good Transcendent God
behind everything that's so good that
he's completely pure Spirit completely
uncorruptible and therefore anything
material must not be of that it must be
in fact evil and so where did it come
from and they've got a mythology for it
but it doesn't matter this create this
character called the demiurge comes into
being uh through a series of kind of
cosmic accidents in the ploma as they
call this and demiurge demiurge comes
from the Greek demiurgos demiurgos means
Artisan or Builder he's the architect of
the world so he builds out the world but
in fact he's a demon and so he builds
out the world as a prison so God in
Genesis in in Genesis 3 with the fruit
has imprisoned Adam and Eve in the
garden and the snake is saying did you
know he just doesn't want want you to
know that you're like him
mhh this same system this is what Cain's
rejecting he's giving his second R
sacrifices he's not doing what he should
God's telling him if he does what he
should things will work out and he's
like no this system's corrupt right
exactly and so this is the same he calls
God out on his misbehavior essentially
is if you don't think that's a sin of
Pride there's definitely something wrong
with the way that you're thinking right
and so I think that this is ultimately
the Gnostic motivation it must have been
I wonder if it's as surprising for you
as it is for me that this is the rabbit
hole that you've ended up going down you
know I had no idea when I started
investigating these theories that you
know that the root consequence of that
investigation would be to move down
levels of analysis into the religious
domain though I did start to understand
that as you move down levels of analysis
you inevitably end up in the religious
domain because the religious domain is
the deepest level of analysis right so
but it I mean has it surprising you that
that you're I'm sitting here talking
about gnosticism for example while
trying to diagnose the ills of the
modern world yes it it it has surprised
me it's very curious as well because I
was this character I had this it cuts
through every human heart as soul and
very eloquently put I was this character
I was a very frustrated academic and I
think it's typical what is the most
common I mean maybe there are others but
one of the more common psychiatric
disorders that academics complain about
is impostor syndrome right they though
I've got this degree but I'm actually
stupid because the PHD earning process
is quite difficult and you're always
surrounded by people who know far more
than you do who remind you of it on a
daily basis and so you end up with this
massive amount of impostor I'm not
really you know good at the thing I'm
not as good as they think I am this kind
of delusional complex and rather than
taking the certification and saying you
know well okay I've earned this and so
you have this Baseline where you you
like marks what do you do with your time
you dig into some area you finally see
the secret you know truth nobody else
saw within that and I'm just talking as
an Impulse I'm not getting religious yet
and you see this and then you write and
you write and write and seven people
read it nobody cares and you start to
think to yourself why am I not getting
career advancement why am I not getting
the accolades why why isn't Society or
if your marks why isn't everybody else
just paying my bills don't they see how
important my social theory that I'm
writing is so you're doing something
but it's this is a second also Lucifer
by the way it is you're making a second
rate sacrifice and expecting to get
First Rate results and that jealousy
grows there well yeah well that
intellectual pride is a big part of that
too you know I work so hard where's well
it's it's there's it's worse than that
even it's not even that I worked so hard
like I had clients for example now and
then who had a luciferian problem and
they were often very smart people mhm
who hadn't put in the work that's
certainly the case but they were very
annoyed because it was clear to them
that they were smart as or smarter than
everyone else and yet the world hadn't
unfolded at their feet Yes you know and
so they were very bitter and resentful
about that and like it's definitely the
case that in Milton like Lucifer who's
the bringer of light is definitely an
envious intellect right yes and he's the
the angel who in God's Heavenly
hierarchy Rose the highest and fell the
furthest and that's definitely that's
something that is definitely something
that can characterize intellect because
the human intellect is a remarkable um
Spirit you might say capable of the
greatest good but it is also the thing
that can fall the farthest and that
wounded intellect is the most vicious of
spirits and so that's sort of that
combination of Cain and Lucifer and it's
also you know it's also the case in the
biblical Corpus if you take the stories
apart that the spirit that raises the
Tower of Babel is the wounded Spirit of
Lucifer and Cain right and that's
erecting a technological alternative to
God but partly in an attempt to worship
intellect instead of well instead of
well instead of whatever God might be
the highest it's something like the
highest Spirit of genuine
self-sacrifice something like that well
the fact is that that the the wounded
intellect or the wounded narcissist
doesn't humiliate itself in front of
anything but the world or God demands
that you constantly humble yourself in
front of what's happening to you
you know right now they get this weather
thing or it's not weather these fires
and the smoke well guess what everybody
in Washington DC New York City has to
deal with that reality has imposed
itself the Smoky air is here you don't
have a choice about whether it's here or
not you have to you have to humble
yourself before what's happening around
you and make adjustments accordingly you
don't get to just assert well I think
the world should be this way I think God
should honor my sacrifices I think I
should have the tower however it is no
if your sacrifices aren't being honored
the first question to ask is what have
you done wrong yes right and that's more
or less by definition right because if
the this is also what what one of the
things I see problematic in the
so-called manosphere online it's because
all the men who are unsuccessful are
clattering on about what's wrong with
women it's like by definition there's
nothing wrong with women yeah right if
you're not adapting yourself to women
it's not the women's problem right it's
your problem and that's by definition
and it's the same thing in relationship
to your relationship to the world is
that if your sacrifices aren't being
rewarded the right question to ask is
how am I prideful and blind not how is
the world constituted in an illg gotten
manner yes okay so now you said
something interesting biographical you
just touched on it but you said that
there was a time in your life where you
were bitter I think I've got that right
and feeling that you were marginalized
and that the world wasn't laying itself
at your feet as a consequence of your
sacrifices so tell me a little bit about
more more about that when that happened
and why do you think that the same thing
isn't true now or do you you know you
know what I mean because if something
like that has got you in its grip yeah
you think you've escaped from it but
that doesn't necessarily mean that
you've escaped right right right so so
let's go to like so how long ago was
tell me a little bit more about that how
long ago was that and what were you
doing what was your career at that point
so this is right after I left Academia
which I didn't get chased out there's a
Urban Legend Online of course from the
people who hate me that I couldn't get a
job no I I took 100% of the job offers
that I applied for in other words zero
okay and so so what well what what was
your academic history well I have I got
a Bachelor's in physics a master's in
math and I finished a PhD in math in
2010 it's PhD in math yeah okay okay so
you are you are those are very difficult
disciplines right so if you rank order
disciplines by IQ math is actually at
the top I think it's math first and then
physics right you got a PhD in math yes
okay so you can clearly think on the
quantitative side of things yes so okay
okay and so then you decided not to
apply for academic jobs yes okay and so
why did you decide not to apply for
academic jobs so at the time the last so
this is 200 maybe seven or eight I don't
remember which year was first the last
couple of years that I was doing my PhD
we had all these you know teaching
meetings or I don't want to say faculty
meetings because I was a grad student
but equivalent to a faculty meeting and
the new rule of the of the University
was was fail the smallest number of kids
possible one per per course no more and
I'm thinking I teach math what are we
doing what university University of
Tennessee wow fail that rule that was
actually a rule that was established the
mostly informally convention yes it was
it was we need to focus on student
retention don't alienate students with
bad grades that's that consumerist
approach to
correct of bloody managerial speak and
Unholy wokeism ex God then you have the
university the bastard child of the two
worst monsters you could possibly put
together so I I didn't want to
participate in that so I chose not to
apply for academic jobs at all I didn't
want to participate if I can't teach
where the students who succeed get
treated for success and the students who
fail fail and have to try again or go
somewhere else or do something different
I didn't want to participate in that I I
even you know having come from physics I
cared very much if I certify somebody as
being competent in calculus and they go
on in an engineering program and they're
not competent in calculus I'm doing
actually a grave evil and if the
university is telling me I have to do
this or show up and talk to the dean and
explain why I failed a third kid in the
class I don't want to participate in
this system anymore so I just
laugh elisium is dedicated to the
biggest challenge in health aging
alysium brings the benefits of Aging
research to everyone they create
Innovative Health Products with
clinically proven ingredients alysium
works with lead leading institutions
like Oxford and Yale and they have
dozens of the world's best scientists
working with them eight of them are
Nobel Prize winners their Flagship
product basis is an NAD plus supplement
that has sold over 3 and2 million
bottles why NAD plus studies suggest
that NAD plus levels and healthy aging
go handin hand in fact at a recent
conference eight out of 10 doctors were
taking an NAD plus supplement we know
there's no such thing as an actual
Fountain of Youth but Time Magazine has
said that NAD plus is the closest with
we've ever gotten to one we've got
celebrities like Victoria Beckham on our
side and doctors like Richard D who says
I recommend it to all my patients who
are looking for something to improve
their overall long-term Health Richard D
also has his wife parents and children
taking basis as well basis is proven to
work and is backed by clinical trials so
support energy production healthy aging
and feel good for your age with basis as
a special offer exclusive to Dr
Peterson's listeners go to trybasis.com
Jordan and enter code Jordan at checkout
to save 25% off your first purchase of a
monthly plan restore youthful levels of
n+ now trybasis.com
Jordan okay and so how have you kept
body we'll go how have you kept body and
soul together since then and because
your career is kind of mysterious and
then also let's go back to this issue of
of bitterness yes yes yes so after
leaving the university I just got I just
got a job actually I didn't I became a
massage therapist which is the internet
thinks this is just hilarious um it's
not a mysterious Story how or why I have
two components to that story my wife is
one so I had an into to the profession
you know a direct line where I
understood what it is and what it does
and secondly I had injured myself doing
Jiu-Jitsu early in my 20s and it turned
out that massage therapy was what
actually fixed it where all these
doctors I had seen weren't able to
figure out how to sort out that what I
had actually done is messed up my soas
muscle MH and so the massage therapist
was able to massage the problem out of
my soaz and the subsequent problems out
of my lower back muscles and glutes and
and thighs and it fixed it and I no
longer had you know these terrible
episodes lower back pain so I said I
want to do this for people so let's go
and so I started studying simultaneously
medical textbooks on muscle pain and
going to massage school which is a
little less rigorous and at and did this
for a number of years well being
academic I became a little academic Al
bored this is a fine career and I
enjoyed what I did and was very helpful
and rewarding but I needed some academic
stimulation so I started to read
philosophy of science I started to get
in discussion forums online this is
where I discovered kind of the feminism
you know explosion that was kind of
happening in Blog blog spaces all over
the Internet and everybody's getting
accused of this and I got involved in a
little bit regretfully now in the new
atheism movement and got caught up in
all that for a few years but the
resentment came I think most of the new
atheists actually regret becoming
involved in that I think so I even see
Echoes of that in Dawkins now because he
seen what sort of children he produced
right yeah very petulant very uh very
very not healthy yeah well one of the
things I learned from you was Catholic
was about as sane as you
get right yeah so you destroy that you
think well you think the Catholics are
insane you wait till you see what that's
protecting you from right it
polytheistic paganism totally in right
oh boy with some child sacrifice thrown
in some nature worship right but the of
course in in in the woke era we live in
now we don't have as much you know these
pagan gods as they were construed in the
premodern we have power dynamics uh
racism systemic racism and well the
Irish are going to sacrific 200,000 cows
to Gaia yeah right you know that's
nature worship finest to change the
weather is really pretty damn funny it's
so it's so appallingly comical that it's
it is definitely a form of Cosmic joke
you know well we do need a few of those
sometimes yeah yeah yeah okay so you
started working as a massage therapist
this was around 2007 2008 what the hell
did your wife think you were doing oh
she she loved the idea that we were
working together she did yeah boy that's
quite the detour out of the math real it
was but you know she's not of that world
and so she didn't really care one way or
the other if I stayed in it or not and
uh so she thought it was you know Noble
that I was picking up something
different and working with my hands and
working with people and trying to to
help people with chronic pain that you
know for whatever s re how long did you
practice as a massar therapist I was
licensed for 10 years so I probably
practiced regularly for about eight you
good at it were you able to attend
people you can really get good at touch
healing a fing so interesting my wife's
a massage therapist it's so interesting
to see how much wisdom you have in your
fingers you know if you if you if you if
you place your hands on people you can
feel weirdly enough where there are
whatever a knot is you know it must be a
place where circulation isn't optimal or
where the muscles have tightened up for
some reason but it's so interesting that
you can feel that out and that you can
fix it too yeah I was actually quite
good at it and it was pretty nice uh but
again academic boredom and so I think
maybe just in general that trying to get
engag in these academic activities
starting to try to write books and
trying to get you know paid attention to
it wasn't coming where the world's not
laying itself out at my feet My
Sacrifice isn't being honored if if you
will but I got really like I remember
telling my wife a couple it's like I
work so hard I know I'm smart yeah why
don't people recognize it and it's so
tempting to say Well it must be
something wrong with that was one of the
things that tempted you into the new
atheist movement I think that was
generally frustration with growing up
largely a religious in the broadly
Southern Baptist
south okay I felt the new atheism
movement was like a breath of fresh air
for me because it was the first place I
felt that IID found in the world where I
could say what I thought without you
know whatever
long pro set of problems it would create
for me you know everybody when I grew up
in in the South the thing about church
people like Dawkins too and and Harris
for that matter is they are
characterized by a certain Clarity of
thinking right right and you know I have
some what would you say sympathy
certainly both for both Dawkins and
Harris I think they're both good people
in some fundamental sense I mean I know
Harris was trying to ground a
transcendental ethic in what he regarded
as unshakable truth and he thought the
unshakable truth was essentially
objective reality and I also have some
sympathy for that perspective because
it's the post-modern critique of that in
part that's led us to where we are right
but uh but the problem is is that well
we can't go into that there's lots of
problems as and you've started to
stumble into that obviously looking at
the strange tangle of religious ideas
that have produced the conundrum that we
see before us okay so you were keeping
Body and Soul together you and your wife
by working on the massage front you said
that you're that wasn't didn't provide
enough stimulation for your your
ravenous intellect and you weren't
getting a lot of purchase on that front
and that was making you bitter and so so
how did you con when did you realize
that what did you do about it what makes
you think you have done something about
it well I didn't realize it till after
the fact so that helps me think that
maybe I have done something about it
because it's one of these things I
looked back at and I say wow I really
was a different person and now what made
you
learn getting beat up by life not
physically losing over and over and over
again and finally accepting that maybe I
have to do something different well
that's interesting he because what
another thing that can happen if you get
beat up over and over and again and and
lose is that you can get more and more
bitter well this is you don't have to
learn I had the same lesson though I
used to fight I used to fight you know
sport fight for real fourth degree black
belt all this stuff back in when I was
young uh I mean young adult not a child
not one of these children black belts
you know in my early 20s and my mid 20s
and um I fought a lot and frankly
sometimes I won but a lot of times
especially on the way up I got my ass
kicked right and you start learning real
fast that you can get as mad as you want
at somebody who can beat you up and it
doesn't let they will still beat you up
they'll beat you up worse that's right
it beat you up much worse right and that
and there's nothing to argue about on
that there's nothing there's no debate
you're down on the floor with your nose
on the ground that's right right I can't
abstract yourself out of that but I
think the the kind of magic secret sauce
besides getting beat up with all the
repeated you know attempts and failure
attempt and failure was that I actually
just got really busy I didn't have time
to ruminate on this because I picked up
the grievance study Affair Peter and
Helen and I started to that was all
consuming I mean every waking moment
that I had for you want to walk people
through that a little bit sure so Peter
and I had this wild brained idea to
write as many fake academic articles for
feminist theory gender studies you know
all of these kind of woke postmodern
journals that put them in the highest
ones we could get and see how many we
could get uh published and we had
planned roughly two years our goal was
that we were going to start in in August
of 2017 writing these things as fast as
we could write them and we were going to
write until sometime around a year later
some summer 2018 we would stop writing
and finish the academic process on
wherever we got and we'd see what
happened so when we wrote the 20th paper
which we finished in June of 2018 we
called it no more no more new ones let's
just finish these do what we have to do
to get them you know into the world and
see where it goes but then the the
article got published on us in in
October so we didn't see all the way to
the end so we wrote 20 six of them were
a learning process they're utter
failures I think they prove lots of
interesting things it's maybe a
discussion for another day uh but then
were there were these 14 others seven of
those had been accepted seven more were
under peer review uh sociologist wrote
an article I wish I could remember who
it was but soon after this happened and
he said that he anticipated that either
for four or five of those seven based on
what the peer review had said and the
quality of them four or five of those
seven probably would have been accepted
as well but the ones that wouldn't were
also the earliest among that batch of 14
she got good at writing fake articles we
cracked the code and we we at one point
I wonder if chat GPT could do that yes
no question absolutely no question I'm
100% confident that it could write
papers that and read them we don't need
the academics at all the chat GPT can
write the pap and read them that's right
and grade them for that matter yeah yeah
yeah yeah so I
uh I this project just consumed my life
you know an academic article a new Full
you know 8,000 word fully cited academic
article we covered 15 subdomains of
academic Pursuit across the 20 papers so
we're all over the place having to read
as fast as we can read and write as fast
as we can write and Cobble these other
it was all we did and so I couldn't
think Plus I knew I was doing something
productive and then of course why did
you think it was
productive we thought that you know once
we started to get success it was very
clear that we had figured something out
that was proved against the real world
we're I mean academic peer review isn't
exactly the real world qua the real
world but it is the system the the
actual system where the the real thing
that certifies knowledge or whatever we
pretend this this corrupt system does
where that is and we were we were we
were in we cracked the code we we said
at one point I said at one point I am
convinced now that I could have a 100%
success rate every paper I write I can
get in I can pick a topic write whatever
I want and I can get it in and anything
gentrification of cornbread was the next
one I had planned just something
ridiculous that right this was a
Humanities focus when you were doing
your PhD work well and the previous work
on that in the stem Fields had you had
any philosophical interest or interest
in the humanities at that point or did
this all develop after you stop pursuing
them the I mean very little I took a
philosophy class as an elective as an
undergraduate and had a tremendously
good time with it but that was it um all
right so this really was a so H that's
so interesting you hopped out of that
mathematical world into massage therapy
MH and into the humanities into the
humanities yeah right and you were
really coming at it from from the
perspective of a stem mind you had a
stem mind that's interesting you know a
lot of the greatest psychologists of the
early part of the 20th century were
engineers say they established all the
statistical techniques that all the
social scientists use right I'm
interesting mathematician though A
different kind there there there are 13
different branches of mathematics I'm
what's called an enumerative
combinatoric combinatoric IST that's a
lot of syllables enumerative
combinatorics gives these very kind of
Baro counting arguments common aurus
this will be upset that I called it
Baroque all the rest of the
mathematicians will cheer uh that I said
this uh that I've confessed this but we
give these things that are called
Counting arguments so that we say that
an an equation is true an identity is
true because both sides of it count the
same thing in two different ways and so
you describe it counts on this side of
the equation it counts it this way on
this side of the equation it counts it
that way a simple example without doing
a bunch of math is that if you don't
know that the the square numbers 1 4 9
16 so on 25 the square numbers obviously
count the number of squares in a square
grid and you know n by n well it turns
out that the square numbers equal the
sum of the first n odd numbers so one
then 1 plus 3 is 4 1 plus 3 + 5 is 9 1+
3+ 5 + 7 is 16 and on ADD n get 25 and
you can see how it goes but what that is
is you count the corner that's one then
you count the three that go around it
that's three more then you count one
what 2 by two so there's two then
there's two and there's one so that's
going to be the next odd number and then
it's three three and one so two threes
and a one the next odd number that's it
that's a combinatorial AR two different
measurement techniques would you say in
well yeah in a sense in a sense because
that's one of the ways we triangulate on
truth right is we use multiple
measurement systems to to abstract out
the same pattern they call that
construct validation construct
validation in Psychology while
psychologists have have tried to wrestle
with the idea of how you know when a
concept is real and the reason they
wrestled with that was because of of the
issue of diagnosis like for example is
anxiety and depression are they the same
thing are they different right well they
overlap to some degree and then when
you're starting to ask about what
whether two things are the same or
different you're asking about the nature
of reality and you're also asking about
the nature of measurement and what
psychologists concluded essentially was
that to establish something as real
imagine there's a pattern there you
needed a set of qualitatively different
measurement techniques all of which
converged on analysis of the same
pattern it's what your senses do right
because your senses provide five
qualitatively distinctive reports and if
they converge you presume it's like a
definition of real five converging
reports using qualitatively distinct
measurement processes constitutes
reality yeah sure right right right so
it seems to me there's an analog there
of the equation issue that it's true if
one counting method produces this result
and another counting method produces
this result that constitutes an equation
and those two things are what would you
say they're is equal the same as real
there I don't know if that's a fair
thing to say so okay well anyway
equivalent is the word equivalent right
equal equals equivalent relation right
so right so they're the same yeah yeah
so as it turns out this gave me a
tremendous amount of background there I
think how does math help what I do a lot
of background in detecting a pattern and
being able to articulate it in a less
abstract way as to what it is so I go
find I would find patterns and say how
can I describe this pattern not just in
one way but in two ways right at the
same time and you were doing that in the
papers so I read the papers and I detect
a pattern of how they use language and
how they site and who they think are
important and then I just go reproduce
this in another way and of course you're
building chat GPT in your imagination
more or less definitely absolutely and
it was extraordinarily successful
another by the way thing that math helps
with is mathematicians are pretty
particular about definitions yes the
most whatever say as a definition all of
the logical conclusions of that
definition in the in the axima system
are necessarily True by by consequence
forever universally right so if you get
it wrong a little bit if you say for
example a prime number is a number
that's uh divisible by one in itself
that's a very common you know Elementary
School definition uh that's not adequate
because it it leaves open the question
is one prime and the answer to that is
no one is not a prime number so the
actual definition of prime when you get
very cautious is it is a number with
exactly two factors which sounds like
the same thing but it's not the same
thing because it removes that one
question of ambiguity upon which all
expressions of things like the
fundament right well so okay so partly
what you're doing as you're diving into
the underlying religious substrate is to
go farther and further down into the
oxums well yes but it also I have the
ability to read them and when they
misuse words I can figure out what they
must mean by the word they're using and
then I can go start to check that to see
right and when like equity for example
like Equity or diversity or democracy or
actually literally almost every word or
power yeah and so oppression yeah yeah
it's really useful to F figure out what
those words mean so that stem mind ends
up having been it was trained in kind of
these two particular skills and I think
I had a proclivity there's definitely
why does anybody become a kind of Fringe
branch of mathematics where it's hard to
get a job if you apply for them because
there's just not that many of them why
would you do that is because you have a
proclivity for it there's a selection
bias into that you're interested in it
you're good at it you're talented in it
I thought it was the most fun thing in
mathematics I could have been an
algebraist I was good at algebra algebra
is very employable it's very necessary
it's very
useful I didn't want to be an algebraist
I wanted to be a comat toist which why
because I really enjoyed it I really
enjoyed getting to think that way
challenging myself to think that way way
about patterns and you were able to you
think you were able to take that
proclivity and then apply it to what you
were doing in Humanities and oddly
enough what you ended up doing in the
humanities was producing parodies of of
humani papers and and and so you found
that intellectually compelling um what
what was your what was your motivation
outside of the intellectual compulsion
now you you talked a little bit about
fact that you were annoyed about the
fact that when you were teaching at the
University you were called on
essentially to falsify the teaching
process so that must have been lurking
around in there in the background
somewhere but what were you and
pluckrose and bosan conspiring about so
to speak when you were producing these
false papers like why the hell were you
doing that because people have asked
that you just causing trouble like no
it's very simple answer we had seen some
of these things because we're involved
in the new atheism movement and it got
attacked by this you know woke virus
very early on before anybody knew what
to call it we were all saying third wave
radical feminism back back then that was
the phrase in and I think you were the
only person saying something like
postmodern neomarxism or something like
this and uhuh so we were we were looking
into this and we would criticize you
know this deviates from you know
standards of you know free liberal
Society this is oppressive this is
against Free Speech we offer these
criticisms and you know what we would
get back if we didn't get called White
or male or something stupid we would get
the most substantive criticism we would
get is you're not credentialed you don't
have a PhD on this you can't criticize
it so we thought well can delegitimize a
fraudulent Enterprise we started to read
the papers and thought that they were
fraudulent and it was an emergency
because they were dipping into the
Sciences well that made you weird to
begin with that you were reading the
papers because I think 80% is it 80% of
Humanity's papers are are never cited
once somebody I asked a question at one
point you said this is sexist what's
sexist they said well sexism is systemic
this feminist woman was talking to me
and I said what does that mean and she
sent me a feminist Theory paper about
feminis about SE sexism and I read it
and I came back to her and I said okay I
kind of get this concept but why do you
just why don't you say it's this is
systemic sexism and distinguished from
what most people think of a sexism she
said no it is sexism it's the same thing
but they're clearly not the same thing
so this made me curious what's going on
and then I started to read some of their
papers here and there I wasn't that
invested in it yet this 2014 and 15 you
know it also means it's interesting too
it also means that all
these see I've noticed this this t y
among creative liberal types right is
that they're very very good at producing
ideas yes but they're not very good at
editing them yes right right and so and
those are actually separate neurological
functions by the way yes so the two
different brain areas do that and so
one's a producer and the other is an
inhibitor an editor and so if you're in
dialogue with someone true dialogue you
produce your ideas but the other person
can act as a Critic that's what peer
review is supposed to do no one's
reading your papers there's no editing
function and so that creativity can just
go everywhere produce false positives
which is what unconstrained creativity
does sure right it's like well that's a
new idea it's like yeah but it's stupid
why is it stupid because if you act that
out in the world you'll die yes that's
like the definition of stupid it is
right right and you're supposed to kill
your stupid ideas before you act them
out and you do that with critical
thinking and if these papers aren't
being read They're not being criticized
that also means that the people who are
producing the ideas don't get to hone
their ideas because they don't get to
learn how to distinguish between the
smart ideas and the and the ideas that
aren't so good right yeah okay there's
no iron to sharpen the iron whatsoever
right right right right right there's
nothing to separate the wheat from the
chaff right right exactly and there's no
Spirit of dial of truly logical inquiry
logo logos based inquiry yeah exactly
exactly okay okay so you were bringing
that to Bear makes sense too because of
the discipline that you came from you're
bringing that sharp eye to bear on this
collection of of what would you call it
mixed mixed
creative over production hyper
production exactly so we thought we
could expose that problem and
simultaneously solve the problem that
our our most annoying critics were
telling us you have no authority to
speak on this because you clearly don't
have a degree in it well we thought well
I'm not going to go to school and go get
a degree why why go back to school for
more I've been in school forever I'm not
doing more school but if we're
publishing at the PHD or the research
level
something about right right right right
well turns out that they did not accept
this as a credential they did not that
did not satisfy them I'm still right
well we could point out for everyone
who's watching and listening too that
you could this is a rule of thumb and
it's a rough one but but it's not so bad
if you're trying to understand this is
what's a PhD equivalent to and
essentially a PhD is equivalent to three
published papers so because in most
universities um certainly in the social
sciences if you publish three paper
papers in well reasonably well regged
journals and then you aggregate them
into a single document add an
introduction and a discussion you have a
PhD that will be acceptable to your
committee right and so if you can
produce three published papers you have
demonstrated by the standards of the
field in fact on on in the in the fields
that are less rigorous one or even zero
published papers will often do it
because lots of times you know the the
median number of Publications for a PhD
graduate is one yeah median right
exactly so when you guys publish three
not only have you mastered the
discipline you've exceeded the norm by a
substantial margin sure right right okay
so that's so partly you were trying to
indicate I see so partly you were trying
to indicate that you knew the we think
lingo exactly this is important to
criticize we have this barrier to being
able to criticize it and be taken
seriously doing so we have an authority
Gap and a recognized Authority Gap and a
credential Gap and so let's fill it was
the other motivation this needs to be
exposed and we need to critici
credential ourselves as authorities that
can criticize this from the outside that
was it because we saw that there were
few or no Authorities on the inside who
were willing to criticize it and so let
walk me through again why you came to
the conclusion that it needed to be
criticized you touched a little bit on
the fact that you are being attacked
when you put forward the new eism
arguments by the postmodern horde but
were were there other reasons that you
felt that there was like a corruption at
the core of this that needed to be
exposed well we started to read lots of
the papers as a matter of fact a lot of
this these very silly so you started to
learn what was actually happening yes oh
that's nasty yeah yeah and so and then
there was one though that tipped us over
the edge it was actually quite famous it
was is operating on a half a million
dollars of National Science Foundation
money it was a paper that was published
in 2016 out of the University of Oregon
or four of the some of the professors
anyway there were four authors were from
University of Oregon and it's about
needing to bring feminism into the
science of glaciology in order to
successfully combat climate change right
right they got a TED Talk out of this I
mean this is the most I read this thing
and it was so shocking to me as somebody
with a background of science I actually
shut down for psychologically for almost
three days I kind of stayed in a dimly
lit room I wouldn't interact I barely
ate I was so depressed at this attack on
that a journal with a impact factor so
high it was a seven for those who know
what that means would publish a paper
this off course about what the Sciences
are about I mean it was suggesting that
the Sciences are sexist unless they
bring in feminist art projects it was
saying that in addition to studying and
these are TR true if I tell you what's
in this paper nobody believes in
addition to studying satellite
photography of glaciers which are the
gods I view from nowhere and literally
called pornographic pictures because
it's you know the the the the satellite
is a pornographer staring down in Mother
Earth at gooning at Mother Earth yes and
and I use that g-word very uh
intentionally
they went on to say that unless we take
paintings done by women in specific of
glaciers and study those as well beside
the Satellite photographs then it's not
a Comprehensive Science it it shuts out
all these other perspectives other means
of knowing if we don't include
indigenous perspectives and mythologies
about why ice is the way that it is and
why it moves then we're we obviously
being colonialist and masculinist and
all these horrible things and I was
shocked that a high not some Fringe
goofy little you know qualitative
studies Journal but a high impact factor
Journal would publish this Brazen of an
assault on the scientific methodology at
all I had no idea how how corrupt it was
until I saw that I see and it shock you
I think about it when we were speaking
about that it's an image that's come to
mind a lot lately for me is that you
know the the what we're seeing is the
invasion of whale carcasses by snow
crabs I don't know if snow crabs is the
right word but I think I know what you
mean yeah you bet man it's like once
something stores up value the
universities have stored up value right
historical value right credentialing
value and unbelievable Financial
Resources yes right they are whale
carcasses and so now everyone On The
Fringe is saying you know I'd like
access to that and they make these
arguments about why they should be
included right the Enterprise because
what they're after is access to those
stored resources that's right exactly
that's exactly right so that was the
moment where I why do you think it
shocked you so badly I think I treated
science as sacred oh yeah well you were
part of the new atheist movement right
well this is one of the things that's so
interesting I think is that and I I
don't know what you make of this exactly
but one of the things I see happening is
that so the enlightenment critique was
one of the reasons for the death of God
now and the new atheist types Dawkins
and and Harris Dawkins in particular
would celebrate the death of God because
that would free the scientific
Enterprise from the superstitious
overlay that was interfering with clear
rationality right but then that begs a
question which is well what is the
relationship let's say between the
judeo-christian tradition and Science
and one answer is antagonistic right and
the other is no the judeo-christian
tradition established the monasteries
for example and the universities grw out
of the monasteries and the scientific
tradition grew out of the universities
and that there's actually that that the
scientific project is actually embedded
in the judeo-christian project and the
reason for that is the judeo-christian
project is predicated on the Greek idea
that there's a logos in the world and
the Jerusalem idea that there's a logos
in the intellect and all of that's a
precondition for Science and if we lose
God we'll lose science too and I think
that I think that's what's happening I
think that the new atheists because I
think the historical notion that there
is an antagonism between science and
religion is actually a misreading of
History I don't think that is how it
laid itself out and I do believe that
the and it's an oddly post-modern
argument in some ways is that the
scientific Enterprise is embedded in the
broader judeo-christian narrative so
when I look at someone like dokins for
example I think okay here's what you
believe Dr Dawkins you believe there's a
logos in the world yes because otherwise
there's that there there's an
intelligible order in the world you
believe that studying that intelligible
order is Redemptive right no first you
believe that you are constituted so that
you could understand that order and then
you believe that if you understood that
order that would be Redemptive it's like
every single one of those aims is
religious that's right that is the
fundamental uh Construction in fact of a
religion it's in fact if we boil it down
into legal ease what the Supreme Court
recognizes as what constitutes an
established religion for Establishment
Clause purposes is it a comprehensive
system of of belief and practice that
that this is their definition that uh
answers fundamental questions about the
world and man's role in it such that it
gives rise to duties of
conscience and this is precisely
precisely you know the legal EAS kind of
practical version of those same
fundamental axioms because these things
there is that multi-dimensional
convergence uh of of what's really well
it might be you know that the most
fundamental axioms of a conceptual
system are are religious claims by
definition you have to say we hold these
things to be self evident and I would
say well Dawkins has to hold the three
things that I laid out as self-evident
and I think that those are part and
parcel of the original judeo-christian
argument sure I mean the fact that the
the entire scientific Enterprise as as
hardcore as physics might be utterly
depends on on on a complete and
irrational faith that there is a logical
structure to the world that doesn't
change or that only Chang in ways that
are intelligible right because well you
could you could also easily set up as an
axiom that it is immoral to analyze the
transformations of the material world
because all that will produce is danger
and you know the the Frankenstein story
the golum story the Tower of Babel story
for that matter are variations of that
Axiom it's right look look out be
careful what you study you know you
might open Pandora's Box for example
have your liver torn out forever because
you're Prometheus and you know there's
certainly you can make a case for that
so the Axiom that investigating the
transformation of the material world in
good spirit let's say in the proper
spirit will be Redemptive that isn't
that isn't a factual statement right
it's an a prior claim yeah that's an a
yeah okay it's like the axium of
infinity is there Infinity who knows but
mathematicians generally accept that
okay we're going to use this concept of
infinity we're going to say there's
Infinity but technically we're going to
see what happens it is unknowable if
there is infinity right right by
definition it's unknowable but there's
an axiom called the axium of infinity
infinity exists more more or less is
what it what it states there's there's a
yeah well I've started to understand
that like that that the the the most
fundamentally religious and the most
fundamentally axiomatic that's the same
thing sure sure okay and that makes
sense to you that makes complete sense
to me yeah yeah okay so now you go down
the Axiom hierarchy and the farther down
you go the closest you the closer you
get to the sacred essentially and I
think the reason that it's Sacred By the
way so
axioms uh constrain entropy that's a
good way of thinking about it right and
so the reason that you have to hold some
things as sacred is because the things
you hold as sacred are the things that
constrain the most entropy in your
conceptual system so if you blow an
axiom you de you free the entropy that's
what happened to you when you read that
paper yes that's why you're hiding in
that room for three days three days
right right because an axiomatic
presumption had been challenged you
thought Not only was the scientific
Enterprise valued valuable you thought
it was valued yes that's right right
right out you were wrong I was wrong you
bet man you bet and the stem people are
certainly going to find out how true
that is you know I saw this 5 years ago
I was warning people in stem I you guys
are
apolitical you are sitting ducks you
have no idea what's going to happen when
the people who swarm the humanities and
those people were partly political the
humanities professors so they had some
defense you wait till they land up on
your Shores you people have no idea
what's coming your way they're going to
go through you like a hot knife through
butter they and this this is happening
look at our Med journals oh yeah well
they say 75% this is so horrible um 75%
of new applicants to stem positions in
the University of California state
systems have their applications their
research dossier are unread because
their Dei statements aren't sufficient
75% that's an astonishing number it it
is something it is something to behold
boy troen Leno would smile down on this
that's for sure that's for sure talk
about a coup yeah you know so that you
can replace those Decades of work that
it takes to become say a PhD in
something difficult like mathematics and
you can reduce that to a Dei statement
and then you can let the dimwits who
evaluate Dei statements decide which
mathematicians get to practice math
that's right it's like oh my God and now
the Dei statement will be written by
chat GT G trick everybody right right
right well maybe we maybe you technical
types have come up with a solution to
the Dei problem just get chat GPT to
write the statements you've
you've automated the compliance process
oh yeah that's pretty damn funny yeah
you know horrible horrible way so yeah
this this is ultimately what so why do I
feel like I've gotten out of this
resentment well I'm not
resentful okay I feel gratitude I like I
began saying I feel very privileged that
I get to travel and talk okay so so
let's let's let me unfold what happened
to you you published these papers and
that caused let's walk through that a
little bit that caused all sorts of
trouble right was wonderful yeah okay so
so tell tell me the story and tell me
what's happened in your life since then
because I now I don't know you you were
a massage therapist then you wrote These
Preposterous papers then there was an
explosion around that but I have no idea
like how you're keeping Body and Soul
together now and so like what what is
your professional life at the moment and
I mean my professional life now is is is
chaos it's been a learning process to
deal with the amount of travel the
demands on my time the request and are
you being paid as a speaker constantly
and is that how you're deriving most of
your income of it yeah so I also created
a company called new discourses where I
publish my own materials and put out my
podcast kind of my own platform website
and that is that a subscription platform
new discourses how do you monetize that
it's optional subscription and it's only
by the generosity of other people that
it stays going I don't have any big
donors contrary to what the internet
believes in urban legends I have none
zero I don't think I have a big oil come
on Big Oil you and big Pharma no doubt
yeah big Pharma loves me I'm sure yeah
sure they do no so but but it's optional
I give out virtually everything for free
I offer one product that's behind a pay
wall and it's a kind of more personal
podcast where I share kind of my more
Cutting Edge experimental ideas and
stories from my trips that I think are
instructive in some way but other than
that it's all public and it's the
generosity of of people who appreciate
are you are you approximating something
that would be the equivalent of a
reasonable academic celery I'm exceeding
that oh well congratul
rather well right right well so look at
that you started making the right
sacrifices and everything turned around
that's I feel that way yeah is that
something again and how do I feel about
it great grateful I don't I should your
I think your answer is a good one by the
way because I was curious about that you
know because I've watched people who
were admired in bitterness say that
they're no longer admired in bitterness
and I remember I think it's the nian
dicum which is something like um you
think you're done with the past but that
doesn't mean the past is done with you
yeah you know and if you've if you've
gone down a dark Road and been in that
for a long time there are traces of that
that last for a long time and they will
come and get you if you think you've
escaped and so but your your response
that you're grateful that's a good
response because gratitude is the
opposite of bitterness I feel like I get
to serve yeah okay that's a good answer
too I just do I don't ask for you know
you ask about the speaking fees yeah I
don't ask for very large ones I'm very
modest in what I what I ask you know I
want my expenses covered obviously but
other than that do you have an agent I
do okay and it's all very very modest I
keep everything extremely modest because
I I sat down with myself a couple of
years ago and I said if it came to the
fact that let's say this the right
person's in the audience because you
never know who yeah and I said no over a
matter of a few hundred or a few
thousand dollars to this event supposing
it would fit into my schedule which is
busy and I said no to this I've done
something Gravely wrong if I don't have
time you know we have to so what do you
do you have more invitations than you
can fulfill I kind of hit right at the
line sometimes they well because one of
one of the arguments for raising your
fees is because it helps you prioritize
if you have a plethora of invitation
corre but you're right on the I I ride
right on the mar and wonder well that's
a nice place I'm also grateful for that
I feel like it's just it's a I I I
hesitate to use loaded words um glibly
but it's almost providential that it's
working this way
and uh so I'm very excited about it so I
I don't feel like I felt and I can look
back on and reflect but I think that the
moment where that decision was made was
during the grievance studies papers we
wrote one it was about education we
called it the progressive stack we said
we should Progressive stack the
classroom so if you have we're going to
do a privilege inventory whether I'll
make them do that walk that privilege
walk where if you know you have this or
that go forward three steps if you're
white walk backwards out of the building
or whatever they make you do and we're
going to rank all the kids and we're
going to put you know your your your uh
roster for the class will be ordered
according to privilege and the more
intersectional privilege hopefully well
intersectional course and and and so the
more privilege that you have the worse
we're going to treat you we're going to
ignore you we're going to our phrasing
was invite you to listen and learn in
silence classroom and then progressively
got worse to so to speak you know we'll
speak over you we'll interrupt you we'll
um you know report you for things to the
dean or whatever will'll actually have
invite you to sit in the floor to
experience reparations you should wear
chains you should do humiliating things
for the other kid staring at you to
overcome your privilege but of course
these are hoaxes so we said but we'll do
it with compassion critically com
compassionate intellectualis yeah we do
it with compassion and the peer
reviewers wrote us back and they said
don't use
compassion they said it'll threaten to
reenter the needs of the privileged if
you're compassionate with them and
instead recommended what they so they so
because they figured you were on their
side they could show their true colors I
think so right cuz one of the things I
have learned is that so serpents
camouflage themselves right you know
that we can detect serpent camouflage
better in the bottom half of our visual
field by the way oh yeah yeah yeah you
know what the best camouflage is for
serpents what's that compassion oh sure
sure you bet you bet and it really works
on conservatives and the reason it works
on conservatives is because you can
really make conservatives feel guilty
cuz they're dutiful so they're guilt
prone yeah so if you can come after
conservatives with compassion and you
can say you're not doing your duty on
the compassionate front instead of the
conservatives going you're a serpent
they go oh no you know we could be a
little better and of course they could
because like who's perfect on that front
of course but well we were talking just
before we started this podcast about
some of the new psychological research
on left-wing authoritarianism and so I
read a paper here a week ago there's not
a lot of papers on this front there's
only about 10 because the social
psychologist just denied that leftwing
authoritarianism existed for seven
decades right till 2016 before I got
what would you say disenfranchised from
the University my lab did a study on
left-wing authoritarianism the first
thing we did was to see if there was a
clump of ideas that were statistically
related that you could describe as both
leftwing and authoritarian and and there
is and it's identifiable it's exactly
the clump of beliefs you would have been
studying and would suspect yeah we
looked at what predicted that predicted
Allegiance without set of beliefs low
verbal intelligence Nega .4 with IQ
verbal IQ so you think well how can
people be you know unwise enough to F to
believe these ideas and one of the
answer is well they're not that bright
as it turns out being female having a
feminine temperament right those were
the three big predictors other
predictors have emerged looking at this
similar construct leftwing
authoritarianism the best predictor I've
seen is malignant narcissism correlation
is 66
right which is about as good as the
measurement accuracy of the
questionnaires right so it it it it
actually opens up the question the
question is there may be no difference
between left-wing authoritarianism and
malignant narcissism and what that means
is the serpents are using the language
of compassion to mask their power
striving well simultaneously claiming
well of course we can do this because
every single social relationship in the
world is predicated on nothing but power
and if you don't accept that that just
means that you're a malignant liar
that's right exactly that's the whole
structure yeah yeah yeah yeah and then
that's that kind of discourse is
disinhibited in the in the in these
disciplines where no one subjects any of
the ideas to critical evaluation right
and the malignant narcissists are also
disinhibited online yeah right which is
a huge problem right none of our evolved
mechanisms for keeping malignant
narcissists under control are operative
on the social media front that's correct
yeah it's really accounts they can do
what they can do whatever they want they
have 100% free reign 30% of Internet tra
is pornographic right criminality is
absolutely rif on the internet right you
can't control it and then you have the
subclinical criminality which are the
troll demon types and then they're
monetized by the social media platforms
of course I've been trying to convince
well convince I've made a case on social
media multiple times that platforms like
Twitter for example should separate the
anonymous people from the real people
they should put them in different
categories right because if you can't
bear responsibility for your words you
shouldn't be allowed free reign in the
in the in the realm of discourse and the
reason for that people say well
anonymity protects Freedom it's like no
if you took a 100 Anonymous troll demons
one of them is a whistleblower and the
other 99 are malignant narcissists so
and I think they should be allowed to
have their say but they shouldn't be
thrown the troll demons and those are
what would you say machine human hybrids
right because when you're online you're
a machine human hybrid sure troll demons
are not human right Anonymous troll
demons are not human you don't put them
in with the people you put them in like
Anonymous troll demon hell and if you
want to go there visit and see what
they're up to no problem but they
shouldn't be confused with people who
will take the consequences of their
words onto themselves you haven't
operated anonymously no I have not why
not you just got to say these things I
you just have to say these things why do
you think that I think that telling the
truth is the most important thing that
we have to do so why don't why not
Shield that with
anonymity that's not as Grave how how on
Earth can someone come and challenge me
or check me if I'm if I'm Anonymous I
can just vanish right right right so
what I come and say you don't have to
sub any of your ideas to critical
evaluation or to take any of the weight
of what you say on yourself right or
compare it against a pattern of
established
thought
uh I like the idea that I I do
understand why some people have certain
risks they're not willing to take but I
try to encourage them to take those
risks understand it's like yeah yeah
yeah if you have something to say story
of Jonah let me I'll give you a one
minute summary the story of Jonah okay
so Jonah is just minding his own
business God comes along says you know
that City
Nineveh yeah well those people have
deviated from the straight and narrow
and I'm not very happy and I'm going to
wipe them out but I'd like you to go
there and tell them what they're doing
wrong um and let them know that they're
in danger
and Jonah thinks there's no bloody way
I'm going to a city of 120,000 people to
tell them that they're wrong no so he
hops on a boat and goes the hell the
other direction well then the waves rise
and the winds blow and the and the ship
is threatened right yeah which means
that if you don't say what you're called
upon to say then the ship is threatened
well the sailors think well there's
someone on board who isn't who's on outs
with God because that's why the storms
are rising so they go talk to everybody
on board you got a problem with God and
jonath says well as a matter of fact
yeah I've dis disobeyed a direct order
and the sailors say well we got to throw
you overboard because like otherwise
we're all going to die right so that
means if you hold your tongue when
you're called upon to speak then
everyone dies so off they throw up right
now he's drowning and you think well
that's pretty bad he's drowning and and
then that's not so bad because the next
thing that happens is a horrible
Creature from the darkest part of the
Abyss comes up and swallows them and
takes them down to the bottom and so
what that means is that if you hold your
tongue when you're called upon to speak
not only do you put the ship at risk and
then likely drown but then something
will happen to you that will make you
wish you drown right so Jonah's now in
hell right which is where you go when
you hold your tongue when you have
something to say and he's there for
three days in hell and then he repents
the whale spits him up on shore then he
goes to Nineveh and says I know what I'm
talking about you guys you've gone
somewhere dark you better get your act
together they put on sackcloth and Ashes
and repent and God decides not to
destroy them and that isn't precisely
where the story ends but that's where
that part end it's yeah yeah hold your
tongue at your peril you know and I knew
that because people have talked to me
maybe they've said the same thing to you
they said well you know thank you for
your bravery and I think it's not
bravery I know what to be afraid of and
I'm nowhere near afraid of as afraid of
the people who would want to compel my
language as I am afraid of the
consequences of not saying what I have
to say yeah right
the ship sinks you drown and then you
wish you would have drowned yeah right
yeah yeah I feel that I feel that that's
exactly I I see the I see what to be
afraid of well you know totalitarian
state everybody holds their Tong and
that's that's this turning point that I
was telling you about because I'm I'm
I'm getting this feedback from these
peer reviewers that have now pulled this
mask off of themselves no compassion
we're going to abuse interesting
students out of privilege which we had
meant college students but this could
apply to Children Of course Very quickly
and faster because they have no they
have no defensive voice look what we did
with them with masks yeah so we're going
to abuse them and there will be no
compassion we're going to use What's
called the pedagogy of discomfort they
told us horrible wow and and so so you
really saw the narcissists unmasked in
the peer review process I talked with uh
Mike naana who was doing a documentary
recently came out the reformers it's
called Uh documenting what we were doing
and I called him and I said Mike you you
got to we got to talk about this we get
talking about that feedback I'd sent it
to him and we decided that the phrase we
used and I've got so much trouble for
this online it was that it it represents
the seed of a genocide I don't know if
the seed's going in the ground I don't
know if it's going to sprout I don't
know if it's going to grow I don't know
if the tree is going to bear fruit
you're actually accurate about that you
know I I wrote a paper with one of my
students who had gone to visit the mass
grave sites in Eastern Europe by the way
before she became one of my students
brilliant girl uh Maya CH chiic uh what
was her name we wrote a paper on the
precursors to genocide and uh enhanced
victimization the enhancement of the
sense of victimization is the one of the
steps along the pathway to genocide yeah
get them before they get us for example
or so I stare this in the face this road
if followed to its apparent potential
conclusion is a genocide or a
totalitarian state or and so I I thought
about this I sat on this for a couple of
weeks and I took one of the braver
moments of my life I went to my wife and
I said can I quit my job and dedicate my
life to exp this was the massage therapy
job yeah no more I can I dedicate all of
my time to studying this and telling the
world about it as fast as I can learn
about it and she being a woman of great
practicality and wisdom said can you
make money doing that right and I said I
don't know it's actually a good question
right because I mean it is one way of
Market testing the viability of your
ideas CU one of the things you might
assume is that if there's no Market what
makes you think you have anything to
offer yeah exactly and so good
discipline that she gave me a Runway
she's like you have 18 months to figure
that out and if we get to the end of 18
month and she's a woman so 18 months is
15 months in reality so we got about to
month number 15 and it got a little
Rocky and then I was actually these like
I said I'm completely crowd supported
other than the speaking fees and so I so
you're actually an autonomous
intellectual correct right right I built
that way
very intentionally that's a very
difficult thing to attain so
conratulations on that very
intentionally so that nobody can tell me
I have to shut right right right right
and because things have to be said and I
don't know what has to be said but I
can't be told to shut up when I have to
say it and yeah I can't have anybody
some think tank guy looking over my
shoulder saying just don't go there
don't insult so and so we're not going
to drag that into the light I I can't
have any of that and so I wrote myself a
salary check at month number 16 yeah
that was the whopping total for 16
months of effort to try to build the
beginnings of this of
$2,000 this is myig my big money $2,000
is not zero it's not zero and getting
getting from zero to one is really
really really hard once you get to
$2,000 the next 2,000 is a lot easier
zero is rough man people yeah zero is a
black hole it's not like any other
number it's a black hole it's really
hard to escape from zero you multiply
any number by zero what do you get zero
right right exactly it's right zero
devours everything and getting out of
zero is really really difficult but once
you get out of zero you can start moving
forward exponentially that's the Pito
distribution issue yeah so you made some
money right so you saw that there was a
market there was a market I was doing
something useful I was doing something
right uh I very fortuitously chose among
this you know we had written cynical
theories but hadn't published yet and so
I have this Pantheon of of evils to
choose from what do I F there's you
can't focus deal huh the Ultimate Buffet
in hell yeah exactly and I I chose just
kind of finger on the ground or ear to
the ground I guess as the metaphor I
mixed my metaphors the critical race
Theory would be the most accessible and
relevant to start exposing first so I
dove into that full blast full bore and
I fortunately created a library of
decoding critical race theory in advance
of George Floyd dying
for the pre preceding eight months and
was that video mostly like what no it
was mostly writing was mostly writing
blog no uh I created the website some of
those articles are blog type articles
some of them are explanatory but what I
found I thought would be most important
and this goes back to that mathematical
comment I made earlier about the
definitions was I knew they were
misusing words and so I started to
create a lexicon I started to create an
enyclopedia of their terminology and I
just would focus on one term after
another another let me get into their
head and know what they mean and go read
primary sources when they use the word
democracy where does this come oh my
gosh we're all the way back to Lenin you
know Lenin def democra you feel do you
feel that you're dealing with a they or
do you you know there there's this
there's this biblical idea that what we
wore against is principalities and I
think of a principality one variant of a
principality is a system of ideas yeah
and I think well there's there's no in a
way there's no they there's a there's a
system of ideas that an animating that's
a set of animating principles sure right
and it partially inhabits a multitude of
people well I I think there are there
are two answers to this there's a very
diffuse they if we say the woke we
generally know that we're speaking about
people who think in certain ways that
they've adopted some of this power
analysis but it's very diffuse and maybe
it's only a small amount and maybe it's
a great amount maybe it's on this issue
another but then there are the people
who pay for it and I mean with large
sums of money they're a very distinct
they somebody has decided to pour the
gasoline into this fire and they decided
do you think but do you think that they
have any sense they again these people I
think they know exactly what they're
doing with it that they are disrupting
Western Civilization so that they can
recolonize it with their own position
and this is why I get called a
conspiracy theorist online despite the
fact that they basically write this in
their books themselves and who okay for
you who who are the primary actors in
that they well there's a front that I
would I usually typically name that is
obviously the people that are the public
face of this and these are people at the
world economic Forum right
overwhelmingly Central did you read CLA
Schwab's great reset I did and quite the
aggregation of cliches I got about a
third of the way through it and I
thought no I can't just count to this
anymore so the great narrative his
second book that he wrote well it's his
fourth really but the second book he
wrote in that series is much more
poignant but the way that he writes is
it's you know maybe 130 pages of a book
or I don't know it's not that long and
it's business cliche business cliche
business terrifying pair of paragraphs
business cliche and so there's right
yeah so if you read it in in in in
regards to the fact that the the the
meat it's a lot of fun in a very little
Burger his camouflage is managers manag
speak so there is a comp before you get
anywhere right right well I I did notice
too that a lot of the things I saw at
universities that were really deep
falsehoods weren't compassion they were
managers speak manager speak that's
right manag speak if you read something
and it's putting you to sleep those
together it was probably designed to put
you to sleep so you don't see yeah
manager speak is what people on the
administrative front who have absolutely
no ability cloak themselves in so they
look competent that's right that's
exactly right oh yeah it's in the in the
middle almost squarely in the middle of
the great narrative for a better future
which is the follow-up book to the great
reset it's called narrative for a better
future the the great narrative for a
better future you can't make this up I
got to read that and so right in the
middle he has a set of paragraphs it's
may be five paragraphs but it covers
three ideas and number one we're going
to force all of the corporations to
adopt ESG standards and we're going to
do that through top- down manipulations
of the public private partnership
governments and big business working
together fascism in other words fascism
with compulsion with the NOS being the
coordinating entity so the world
economic forum is a is a hub that
connects these things which means
there's something probably behind it
that's a different ve that's really
organized that's the Legion by the way
yes and then so secondly we're going to
transform the youth to demand ESG they
won't work in a company they won't buy
from a company Etc unless they're ESG
compliant we're going to change the
youth culture then third we're going to
rewrite the social contract to accept
this new only those three things only
those three things very nefarious though
and he repeats he's got the uniform for
it for man the accent yeah Central
Casting Central Casting that's right a
crow on his shoulder yeah yeah or a bald
cat to pet yeah right exactly yeah so
yeah so he he says this speech earlier
this year an interview he says that
we're going to rewrite the social
contract he says this again and again
but he says specifically this time we're
going to rewrite the social contract so
that Society accepts as we move from an
economy of production and consumption to
an economy and I kid you not Jordan of
caring and sharing oh yeah and that's
communism I mean because productive
generosity on the free market front
hasn't worked correct right right
because it hasn't lifted more people out
of poverty since the year 2000 than
lifted out of poverty in the entire some
history of humanity before that yeah but
climate change yeah I know I know
exactly yeah yeah yeah yeah so this is
yeah it's so interesting he that like I
I've got a couple here's some tell me
what you think about these ideas so so
so tyrants use fear to to produce
compulsion they're after compulsion they
want to aggregate the power and so they
use fear and apocalyptic fear is the
best sort of fear to use of course right
and so so now you can tell the tyrants
because everybody wants to know who's
listening how do you tell the tyrants
from the real leaders okay the tyrants
will frighten you into compulsion and
they'll and they'll use they'll they'll
use the crisis and the catastrophe to
justify the compulsion and you might say
well there's a real crisis and the right
answer to that is there's always an
apocalyptic crisis that's right that's a
that's a universal Eternal truth we and
it's partly because all of us die it's
partly not because you die and I die but
also because every single person we know
our whole culture everything we know
will die yeah so the apocalypse is
always there and sometimes that happens
dramatically and sometimes it happens
incrementally but it happens and so
we're always facing apocalyptic crisis
because of that and then you say well in
spite of that you can have a a form of
government that's not a tyranny well not
if you use the fear of the apocalyptic
crisis to compel and to aggregate power
and so any leader who tells you that the
crisis is is so intense that it
necessitates emergency compulsion that's
a tyrant that's exactly right and then
there's another corollary to that which
is imagine you're tyrannical and you are
genuinely frightened by this crisis then
I would say your nervous system has
indicated by the paralysis of your fear
that you're too small a knight for that
Dragon right and so you shouldn't be
parading yourself around as a leader
it's like no you're a fright anded
tyrant you're not a leader and we can
tell you're not a leader because you're
a frighten Tyrant right if you were a
leader even in the face of a crisis you
would keep your head that's right and
you wouldn't use compulsion that's right
right so all these apocalyptic nightmare
mongers who are saying well well we're
going to burn up the planet it's like
yeah that and 10 other apocalypses by
the way that doesn't mean you get to
centralize all the power and take it for
yourself and use compulsion this like I
really started to understand as far as I
was concerned I was at War when I saw
that the leftist radical narcissistic
malignant types were willing to
sacrifice the poor to their climate scam
that's right right so well let's crank
up Energy prices well why well because
Renewables because climate it's like do
you know who you're going to hurt with
high energy costs you're going to
destroy the marginal right because all
you have to do is energy and food
there's no bloody difference those
people are barely Clinging On to the
edge of reality you crank up Energy
prices 10% you wipe out like 20 million
people yeah it's like well that's okay
sir because you know there are too many
people on the planet anyways it's like
yeah I know who's speaking in that voice
exactly you bet right the great Cosmic
Joker yeah yeah there's too many people
on the planet I watch people actually
say that I think do you know who's
speaking out of your mouth God stunning
so you know what the great narrative is
for a bitter future he he says it
explicitely this is closer to the end of
the book
he in one paragraph says what the great
narrative is after he makes his case
with you saw the punchline is
centralization of power transformation
of the universe or whatever the great
narrative is we Face multiple
existential crises climate change
pandemics exactly The Four Horsemen we
Face multiple existential CR the poly
crisis they call it now yeah therefore
we need greater Global
cooperation cooperation which of course
is going to have to be managed by the
Chinese are wandering down that road
real fast 700 million cctvs right and
gate recognition oh such fun right smile
for the government I saw a video that it
said that showed the guy scan his face
to go through the gate and it didn't let
him it didn't open and it said in
Chinese it says I don't read Chinese but
it was translated smile for so I assume
it's true smile for the government and
he smiled and it opened could you
imagine yes I've been in airports I can
imagine yeah well yes of course in my
pocket now is my passport from the last
time I went to China I keep a little
slip of paper they gave after they took
all my fingerprints my handprints and
scanned my eyes just to go through
immigration the last time I went to
Beijing in 2019 so I carry it's
completely faded you know it's a heat
transfer soon the Drone is coming your
way buddy exactly yeah the gate
recognition drone nice poison dart for
you yeah exactly this is this is very
scary but that's it there's your Tyrant
though we're building the good Skynet
it's like really building the good Sky
yeah yeah wow and so the ESG openly is
there to serve Black Rock and Larry f
Black Rock and the United Nations evil
Central because they're set up to
establish the the reign of the 17
sustainable development goals of what
they call agenda 203 I helped write
those goddamn things you know oh no and
I got to tell you too we we worked on
that document back in 2012 do you know
why there are 17 of them I'm
relentlessly curious about that no no I
don't know when when we wrote when we
helped write the document there were
like 170 and one of the criticisms that
I kept living is like hey guys guess
what you can't have 170 priorities right
you can have one priority because that's
what makes it a priority and I tried to
find out why there were 170 and the
answer was well there's 170 different
constituents to please and we don't want
to offend anyone it's like Oh you mean
you don't want to do anything it's like
well yeah that is you know wink wink no
no that's what we mean but we don't
usually say that sure of course right
and that I would say in my defense such
as it is that if you think the document
that was produced in 2012 was bad you
should have seen what it was like before
it got edited wow right wow yeah right
right well one of the things I did
realize after going through that process
was that well apart from the fact that
it was Preposterous to have 170 goals
that no one had ran orded the goals in
any halfways intelligent way there was
no cost benefit analysis and then bejor
LG's team started to do that right right
Bjorn wrote a book a while back called
how to spend $75 billion to make world a
better place which is an intelligent
approach to I wouldn't say the poly
crisis because that isn't how he frames
it but you know if we were actually
going to try to lift the help lift the
remaining people in abject poverty out
of poverty lomberg has shown that there
are ways that sure far less expensive
than the trillions of dollars that we
will waste not not fixing the climate
just like they've not fixed the climate
in Germany right Germany what a
catastrophe he the bloody and energy
costs are now five times as high five
times as high unreliable dependent on
Putin and other dictators around the
world right and they're burning legite
so per unit of energy they actually
produce more pollution than they did
before they started the Green Revolution
right and their and their response to
that criticism is we have to do stupid
things we have to do stupid virtue
signaling destructive things faster yeah
exactly right God yeah stunning Net Zero
n zero zero for you but you've seen
absolute zero as well that's beyond Net
Zero
that this this is a is a project a think
tank project that came out in 2019 from
UK fires FES which is a conglomeration
of the British government and the
Cambridge and Oxford and University
College London or whatever that's called
and all of this lays out the idea that
and of course this is just the Overton
window stretching we should take it
seriously but it's probably not what
will happen yeah right but they argue
that Net Zero is not nearly enough we
must have absolute zero and absolute
zero no they're saying what they mean
absolute zero emissions
by absolute Zer well they openly in the
documents say people should start buying
warmer clothing now especially old
people you know but you know they're
cluttering up the emergency rooms anyway
no air travel at all I know I know you
know short Hall flight say two weeks ago
between any two cities that were
connected by rail I know the absolute
plan is well this is what I said Net
Zero means all you peasants who are
watching and listening you should pay
attention to this Net Zero means zero
for you that's what it means and by plan
you little people you don't need cars
God who needs a private automobile I
knew 15 years ago that the bloody
totalitarians would go after the cars
because nothing screams Freedom like a
350 horsepower Mustang in the hands of a
16-year-old boy it's like no we got to
clamp down on that he can go wherever he
wants and do whatever he wants you know
cluttering up the planet and producing
carbon so it's like no cars right they
the goal is 90% reduction in private
auto automobile uh ownership you think
well you get to have an electric car
it's like no the grid can't sustain
electric charging well how we deal with
that how about you peasants don't get to
have cars that's right right right no
cars no flights no meat no heat no air
conditioning no container shipping mhm
oh yeah well who needs who needs who
needs Goods so we go back to our Neo
Marxist Herbert maruza writing in 64 in
onedimensional man and what is he saying
what's his argument he says well the
problem with socialism is it can't
produce the problem with capitalism is
it's not sustainable it overproduces and
ends up destroying we need unsustainable
nonproduction correct right right that's
the Socialist solution how about we have
the best how about we have the worst of
Both Worlds yeah and so he says what do
we have to do we have to start getting
used to less lower standards of living
fewer gadgets we we right right right
right and all the people who will be
getting us used to lower standards of
living will be flying around in their
private jets deciding how to do that
eating steak that's right of course of
course oh yeah that's the so you are a
conspiracy theorist fundamentally well I
mean I I I fundamentally reject the word
theorist uhhuh I don't think it's a
theory uh I think that they're they're
open about their
collaboration and so yeah well that's so
interesting because we have antifa right
and at the same time we have actual
Fascism and everything that antifa
attacks has nothing to do with the
actual fascism that's right yeah so it's
so there's another great Cosmic joke for
you yeah the anti-fascists are
supporting a gigantic conglomeration of
governments and large Banks industry is
phal companies and Legacy Media isn't
that fantastic it's really it's really
it's really cosic jokes are are piling
up yeah well I've been posting pictures
of evil clowns lately and people think
they're wondering what the hell I'm up
to you know which form of insanity has
now gripped me it's like I realized that
Satan is an evil clown right I I started
to understand that you know when when I
when I encountered the sign that was
over owitz because the sign that was
over owitz was our me Frey which means
work will make you free it's like I
thought that's a joke then I thought who
would tell a joke in owitz himler right
well well yeah but who's the who's the
spirit behind himler right who's the
great Cosmic Joker and then also uh
Mutual assured destruction right the
acronym for years was mad thought oh
that's a joke too right it's all these
jokes you know and then I watched the
death of stellin have you seen that no
oh it's great it's a movie about oh it's
so great because it's it's as BR it it
portrays the brutal reality of the
Soviet Union there are terrible
murderous raping catastrophic things
going on in the background of the movie
Non-Stop and then there's these five
Jokers one of whom is Stalin and the
rest of his evil crew and they are like
they're bumbling parodies right
everything's a parody and I realized
after really thinking about that
thinking about that motif of the Joker
and the and the clown which has become
so prevalent in modern culture I thought
I see see when things become
totalitarian they turn into a parody
right like Dylan mulan's a parody and
what's happening to will women's sports
is a parody and what Northface is doing
with their advertising is a parody and
it's like oh yes that's right Satan is
an evil clown yeah right what did maruza
write in 69 so he wrote in essay on
Liberation that it's crucial that the
resistance meaning them the radicals
take on the form he said this the
clownish forms that so irritate the
establishment it must become an
antinomian Revolution it must right
everything upside down everything upside
down everything become and then so
Judith Butler talks about the politics
of parody you give this kind of Despair
we never know any of that had actually
laid strategy yeah politics a parody the
clownish forms that the that irritate
the establishment I remember reading
this because of course clown world is
the meme on the internet they call it
and I'm reading maruza and I I stumble
on this take on the clownish forms it's
like oh my God clown War world was a
plan right the only thing about the evil
clowns is they're not funny right that's
the well no they're not funny that's
right they're not funny at all it's not
funny at all right and so and and that's
quite interesting too because one of the
things you see about the totalitarian
left is they really hate comedians they
right so they love parody but they hate
comedy that's right right right and it's
got to be it's got to be parody of the
darkest form yeah it's always dark or
almost intentionally stupid or
destructive yeah yeah every time every
time grotesque frequently Gres yeah
frequently monstrous yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah it's never funny okay so how do you
know you're not just
crazy um I ask myself that a lot too and
I don't know that I have a really great
answer for that is your wife sane she
seems to be pretty sane she's very
grounded okay well that's helpful and
she still likes you she's she very much
likes me and she is very convinced that
I'm not crazy so and she has a good F ad
du right you could both be crazy do you
have friends it's a few
yeahuh are they sane some of them some
of them not maybe I don't know uh it's a
weird weird world we occupy but yeah
most of them are most of them are well
that's one of the ways you can check
right is you want to have people around
you especially if you're playing in this
in this abysmal realm let's say you
bloody well want to have people around
you who will give you a the straight
story you get demented and out of shape
you know what did need to say about the
abyss right you stare into it and it
stares back that's right that's right
right right and if you fight with
monstrous forms you have to be very
careful that you don't become monstrous
yourself right and I don't think you can
do that yourself I think you have to
have people around who are going tapping
you into shape ta yeah yeah yeah yeah
keep the humility up and the Gratitude
well humility is absolutely Central this
has become this is this has become kind
of my main issue I speak often with you
you know Christian audiences but also
political audiences and it just what
unites this this the this kind of
broadly secular resistance and then the
to to the woke and then the very
religious and the truly religious are
humble before God and the rest religious
are prideful right true right you know
the Canadian government announced Pride
season yeah yeah because you know pride
pride isn't enough Pride day isn't
enough Pride week well that's not enough
pride month well that's not enough Pride
season Pride all year yeah yeah yeah
yeah so interesting to see the worship
of Pride it's like well that isn't what
we mean it's like yeah I think that's
what you mean it looks like that's what
you say or the words that's what the
words you say mean God only knows what
you mean you might not mean anything but
the words you say mean something just
like Equity means something and hey
we're going over to the Daily wire plus
side now so if you're interested in that
head over there give give some
consideration to supporting them if you
like what they're doing um and yeah well
thanks again James very good talking
with you hello everyone I would
encourage you to continue listening to
my conversation with my guest on
dailywire plus.com